I have made three projects ,namely 
Automatic Door hinge
Automatic plant watering System
weather analyzer


ABOUT Automatic Door hinge

When was sitting on my table thinking what to make for mars task 1 ,one of my friend came into my room to pass the time . After some time he went out. But when he didn't closed the door . 
And i was like "damn , now i have to get up and close the door" . Now as lazy as I am I thought why don't we have automatic doors which closes if no body is there at the door.
the i thought why not i make one in arduino . That's how I got the idea of automatic door hinge.
In this project i have used PIR sensor and a ultrasonic sensor to detect if someone is at the door or not, and a servo to act as hinge of the door.
I have used two different sensor as if I had used only PIR sensor door would open even when someone is just passing by . And if i had used only Ultrasonic sensor the door 
will remain open even if there are slippers and shoes kept on the front of door.
thats why i used both motion and proximity to determine if door should open or not.
Code of this project is attached with the name Atomatic_dooe__hinge



ABOUT Automatic Plant watering system

In this project I have used Soil Sensor,slide switch and a servo.
This is fairly simple project.
I have used Slide switch to turn on or off the device.
I used soil sensor to detect amount of humidity in the soil and servo basically mimics water pouring action from a vessel.
The soil sensor detects the humidity level, as the humidity level falls below certain range , servo turns on and supplies water to the plan.



ABOUT Weather Analyzer

I this project i have used Temprature sensor , gas sensor, ambiant light sensor and a LCD display.
temprature sensor senses temprature, gas sensor for pollution and light sensor for amount of sun light.
I have programmed this project such that the LCD display will display "perfect" , telling us it  is a perfect weather to go out if all three parameters are under certain
value. If only one parameter falls under desired range, LCD display will display "okay" telling us it is is okayish weather to go out.
if all the parameter are out of range ,the LCD display will display "bad weather " telling us it is a bad weather to go out.


so this was my three projects.
